Feature/git docs and 3rdparty (#5)
joinbox/guidelines: styleguide/git/commit-messages.md

# Commit Messages

The commit messages must follow the rules in this document.

> As we build automated Change Logs for some projects please make sure you only use the specified types and formats.

Reviewer: This is not a recommendation, this is mandatory. 

```suggestion
As we build automated change logs for some projects, you have to use the specified types and formats described hereafter.
```

The scope may be optionally set.
Note: the software creating the versions may not bump the version if there is neither a feature nor a fix since the last release. Please read the documentation form the used software for further information.

The types are based on [Sparkbox's article](https://seesparkbox.com/foundry/semantic_commit_messages) about semantic commit messages.
There is a [cli](https://github.com/fteem/git-semantic-commits) to use the commit messages with a simpler interface

## Commit Message Format

```

> feat(scope): add hat wobble

Reviewer: you added the scope. please reformat the ascii graphic to match your update!

^--^  ^------------^
|     |
|     +-> Summary in present tense.
|
+-------> Type: chore, docs, feat, fix, refactor, style, or test.

```
- feat: mandatory, one of the listed types from below.
- summary: mandatory, summary about your changes in present tense.
- scope: optional, describes the component the code is changing.

## Type

Must be one of the following:

> - chore: A small change not affecting the functionality of the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- chore: A task or a small change not affecting the functionality of the code
```

> . docs: Changes or additions in the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- docs: Changes or additions in the documentation
```

> - feat: A feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- feat: A feature
```

> - fix: A bug fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- fix: A bug fix
```

- refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature

> - style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- style: Changes that do not change the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
```

Author: I do not agree with that, as for example if you have legacy projects you will often update the syntax to ES6 wich does change the code but ist not affecting it's meaning.
What would be about "affecting the functionality of the code"?

Reviewer: Isn't there the commit type `refactor` for this? An upgrade in es syntax is clearly a refactoring. Adding some whitespace isn't. 

`Style` type commits should not change a single letter of the code. It may for example add a newline inside a statement though: `do().something()` -> `do().\nsomething()`. 

The meaning of the word «meaning» is too broad. For example, if i have a function called `showButton` that adds a class on an html element, it won't change its meaning when it sets the style directly on the element in a new version. This is a `fix` or a `refactoring`, not a style change.

> - test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing test

## Summary
- use imperative, present tense: “change” not “changed” nor “changes”
- don't capitalize first letter
- no dot (.) at the end
```

# Commit Messages

The commit message must follow the [Angular Commit Message Guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines).

> As we build automated Change Logs for some projects please make sure you only use the specified types and formats.

Reviewer 2: We should probably add a hint that not all commit types (_e.g:_ chore) will trigger an automated release ... or do they?

Author: Well we do not have automated releases yet. But I will add what will be part of the release notes generated.

Author: @rcky As I was checking what it would do with code I figured out, that chore isn't actually a part of the angular guidelines, so i rewrote the readme. please have a look. I added a note to look at the documentation of the program generating the versions.
We are using the following on in some of our projects. IMO it generates at least a bugfix version dump. But if there is only a chore the change log will be empty.
https://gitlab.com/hyper-expanse/open-source/semantic-release-github#readme
